https://www.javascripttutorial.net/javascript-dom/javascript-dispatchevent/

Dispatching an event creates an event programmatically instead of the user action creating an event.

1. Create an event using Event constructor
2. Trigger the event using element.dispatchEvent()

To create a new event, you use the Event constructor like this:

let event = new Event(type, [,options]);

The Event constructor accepts two parameters: type, options

TYPE
is a string that specifies the event type such as 'click'.


OPTIONS
is an object with two optional properties: bubbles, cancelable

bubbles: is a boolean value that determines if the event bubbles or not. If it is true then the event is bubbled and vice versa.

cancelable: is also a boolean value that specifies whether the event is cancelable when it is true.
By default, the options object is:{ bubbles: false, cancelable: false}



For example, the following creates a new click event with the default options object:

let clickEvent = new Event('click');



After creating an event, you can fire it on a target element using the dispatchEvent() method like this: element.dispatchEvent(event);


If the event comes from the user actions, the event.isTrusted property is set to true. In case the event is generated by code, the event.isTrusted is false. Therefore, you can examine the value of event.isTrusted property to check the “authenticity” of the event.


The Event is the base type of UIEvent which is the base type of other specific event types such as MouseEvent, TouchEvent, FocusEvent, and KeyboardEvent.

It’s a good practice to use the specialized event constructor like MouseEvent instead of using the generic Event type because these constructors provide more information specific to the events.